## NMAP timing

### Timing Templates (`-T`)

While the fine-grained timing controls discussed in the previous section are powerful and effective, some people find them confusing. Moreover, choosing the appropriate values can sometimes take more time than the scan you are trying to optimize. So Nmap offers a simpler approach, with six timing templates. You can specify them with the `-T` option and their number (0–5) or their name. The template names are `paranoid` (`0`), `sneaky` (`1`), `polite` (`2`), `normal` (`3`), `aggressive` (`4`), and `insane` (`5`). The first two are for IDS evasion. Polite mode slows down the scan to use less bandwidth and target machine resources. Normal mode is the default and so `-T3` does nothing. Aggressive mode speeds scans up by making the assumption that you are on a reasonably fast and reliable network. Finally insane mode assumes that you are on an extraordinarily fast network or are willing to sacrifice some accuracy for speed.

These templates allow the user to specify how aggressive they wish to be, while leaving Nmap to pick the exact timing values. The templates also make some minor speed adjustments for which fine-grained control options do not currently exist. For example, `-T4` prohibits the dynamic scan delay from exceeding 10 ms for TCP ports and `-T5` caps that value at 5 ms. Templates can be used in combination with fine-grained controls, and the granular options will override the general timing templates for those specific values. I recommend using `-T4` when scanning reasonably modern and reliable networks. Keep that option (at the beginning of the command line) even when you add fine-grained controls so that you benefit from those extra minor optimisations that it enables.